eric weiss was probably one of the most
famous people
not only of his time but ever if this
name doesn't ring a bell
maybe his stage name will harry houdini
he took inspiration from two other
magicians he admired
and combined their names into his own
houdini was so much more than a magician
though and one of his most
notable achievements was his film acting
career
he even starred in one of the first
series ever it was a 15 part show
called the master mystery challenges
so popular today were also houdini's
invention
back in 1904 he accepted a challenge
from the daily mirror
a london newspaper harry was to break
out from special handcuffs
a famous locksmith spent five years
making them
more than four thousand people and over
100 journalists came to witness
that much hype challenge a century
before
instagram was invented it took some time
for houdini to figure out how the
mechanism worked
harry asked a newspaper representative
if he could remove the cuffs for a sec
just for him to take off the coat but he
refused to give houdini any advantage
then harry took a pen knife and cut the
coat to rip it off his body
56 minutes in harry's assistant bess
came to the stage and gave him a kiss
spectators thought bess had hidden
something in her mouth
to help harry escape as right after she
went off stage
he headed to the small screen concealing
his tricks
one hour and ten minutes after the
challenge started
harry houdini went to the cheering crowd
with no cuffs on
he broke down at the end of the
performance and later confessed
it was the most difficult escape he'd
ever performed
to this day nobody knows how exactly he
did it
some people believe bess pleaded the key
from the newspaper representative
and stole it into a glass of water harry
drank from
still rumor has it that the key was
almost six inches long
so bess wouldn't have been able to fit
it in her mouth let alone slip it into
the glass of water
bess was more than an assistant for
harry she was his wife
they fell in love right at the moment
they met and got married about a week
later
they spent 32 years together and never
stopped writing love letters to each
other
they got married three times to prove
their love
bess kept saying she was the most
married woman she knew
their love was the most important magic
they had
harry was the king of escapes not only
could he wriggle out of almost any cuffs
he could also disappear from a water
tank being placed there
upside down and the tank cover closed
with super secure locks
he didn't even damage any of those this
stun is called
houdini upside down
not only was he submerged in water but
he literally
couldn't move in the water trap the
first step of this stunt was to lock
harry's feet in stocks
then he was suspended upside down the
whole construction had two
holes for his feet and served as the top
of the glass tank
the last step was to put him into the
tank and lock it
the cell harry used for this stunt was
custom-made for ten thousand dollars
and patented it was a massive
construction
almost 27 inches wide and 59 inches tall
the tempered glass of the frame was half
an inch thick
harry never traveled to his performances
with one cell
only he always had a second one just in
case
at the beginning of the stunt harry
would let his spectators choose
where to place the cell he did that to
prove there was no trap door
there was always an assistant with an
axe ready to smash the glass and let
harry out
in case something went wrong anyway he
never needed that kind of help
[Music]
it usually took him two minutes to
appear from behind the curtain
the whole lock system on top of the
water tank remained untouched
an urban tale that says harry drowned in
the cell wasn't true
he mastered to perfection all his stunts
and almost never got hurt
the only accident at work he actually
had was in 1926
when he fractured his ankle because one
of the cables got loose
plus before the show started any
spectator could check the cell
and if they could prove a person might
breathe inside the cell
harry would give them one thousand
dollars
it wasn't the only time harry offered
money to debunk something
besides being a performer he was also a
professional supernatural mythbuster
he offered a ten thousand dollar reward
to anyone who could scientifically prove
any physical phenomenon that couldn't be
explained before
he never had to pay it though
he was also famous for debunking many
spiritual gurus
that were pretty famous in those times
he publicly claimed that
all kinds of spiritual experiments were
a mediocre fraud
yet still he secretly practiced this
kind of fraud himself
he did that together with his beloved
wife bess who continued seances even
after the great magician had passed away
her last attempt was on october 31st
1936.
the seance itself was held on a rooftop
to be as close to the sky
as possible over 300 people were invited
to the ceremony
yet houdini apparently didn't contact
them
at the end of the seance bess said she
lost hope
and this was the last attempt to contact
harry
houdini was a complicated person who
couldn't stand being number two
so another stunt was a fruit of rivalry
between him and his younger brother
hardine
he had a magic show too and both
brothers performed straight jacket
escapes
once the spectators asked hardine to
perform such an escape
without a screen he did so and received
a standing ovation
houdini couldn't help but to do it
better than his brother
to make this trick even more challenging
he upgraded it to a
hanging straitjacket escape
the idea of this stunt was to have a
slack inside the jacket
the arms were to be crossed on the chest
the right arm was to be on
top because it was stronger
before having the jacket buckled up
houdini would take a deep breath
and expand the chest as much as he could
when the jacket was finally on
harry had enough spare room he was
hanging upside down
which actually helped a lot the gravity
would pull him down
his right arm would push the left elbow
away from the body
which allowed him to pull the stronger
arm over the head
as soon as his arms were free getting
out of the straight jacket was a
question of
little time and effort harry could undo
the cuffs with his teeth
he mastered this trick so well that it
took him only about three minutes to
free his body
in the beginning it used to take him
about 30 minutes
he wasn't afraid of gravity at all at
his compulsion for being number one
and you'll see that his being a pilot
isn't something to be surprised about
he owned a 60 horsepower biplane which
is five times less than today's dodge
challenger has back in 1909
his private plane cost an incredible
five thousand dollars which is about one
hundred forty two thousand dollars today
harry was officially the first person to
ever fly in australia
but although he was a gifted magician he
still
narrowly escaped several crashes even
though escapes were definitely houdini's
thing
probably one of the most mysterious of
his performances
was about a vanishing elephant he knew
how to hide anything no matter the size
jeannie the elephant
the star of this performance was
accompanied to a large cabinet that
looked like a circus wagon
then it was closed and the audience
could see the front part of the cabinet
one two three both front and back doors
were opened
but there was no elephant inside the
secret of the trick remains unknown
there's only one photo with harry and
jenny the elephant
and no photos at all with a cabinet and
machinery he used to perform this trick
and now it's my turn to vanish